So now let's talk about interfaces.
And interfaces are a complex aspect
of code but they're super powerful,
especially on larger code bases and kind
of as you're trying to wrangle code and
make sure everything makes sense and
is readable.
And so if structs define a set
of attributes on a type,
like a user has a first name and
a last name, it is of type user.
Interfaces are gonna describe a set
of behaviors that also define a type.
So if you're a user and you can log in or
change your first name,
stuff like that, any type that can
accomplish any of those behaviors is
also of a type of that interface.
And we'll talk a lot about what that
means in the next couple slides.
Okay, there's a lot going on on the slide,
but bear with me, we'll walk through it.
So on the top left corner,
I've defined two different types.
There's a mom struct and a dad struct.
And each of these has a set of attributes
first name, last name, an array of kids.
And then in the mom struct we
have a book club friends and
the dads directory of girl friends.
I don't mean to categorize in any
negative way, but we'll go with it.
So let's say that both of these types
have a couple of things that they do.
So you'll notice that on the right hand
side, we have a couple of functions.
If you look in the middle, methods that
are called on both of these structs.
They both can call frequently.
And it takes an array of kids and
both of them can check if the oven is off.
So these are all methods
that these types can do.
So at the top, we have a type Worrier,
which instead of a struct,
it's an interface.
And an interface is a list of methods
that are going to describe behavior
of particular types.
So if a struct can CallFrequently and
check if the oven is off,
it is also a type Worrier.
So on the bottom of the file here,
you'll see I've instantiated
two different variables.
Susan is of type mom and
Bob is of type dad.
And so because Susan is of type mom and
a mom struct can call frequently and
check if the oven is off, Susan is
automatically also of type Worrier,
which is an interface.
We'll take a second to
let that slide step.
There's a lot going on.
And then the quote at the bottom,
I found while just digging
through the documentation,
but it seems to kinda encapsulate
the concept of an interface quite well.
If it walks like a duck,
talks like a duck, swims like a duck,
it's probably a duck.
So if a struct has all of these behaviors,
it is also of type interface
of all of those behaviors.
Cool.
So let's kind of focus back on our
existing types that live in our code
base so far.
So we have two types.
We've got the user and the group,
both of which can describe something.
You can call describe
on both of these types.
And since interfaces describe the kind of
behavior our types can execute, we can
create a type interface called describer,
which takes the method describe.
And so any type that calls describe
is also going to be of type
describer interface.
And so the beauty of this is that instead
of having to explicitly list mom.do
something, dad.do something,
user.do something.
We can create a describe
humans function that takes
any type that is also of
the describer interface.
So now we can be a lot more generic and
reduce a lot of duplication in code
by saying that, hey if you are a type
that is also a type describer interface.
I know you have a describe
method therefore I can call
this method on you without
having to ask like are you user.
Are you group,
are you some other struct that we haven't
created yet that we'll use down the road.
This function knows anything that gets
passed in will be of type describe or
interface that must have
the describe method on it.